The Joe Rogan experience.
What, what happened, um, with, uh, with the dissonant,
um, is, you know, the,
the film is kind of beyond told story behind the murder of Jamal
Khashoggi. You know, the,
the Washington post journalist walks into the Saudi consulate
in Istanbul in October, 2018 and, uh,
is murdered. Uh,
I mean just the most horrific gasoline murder. Um,
the, uh, he walks into the consulate. Um, they basically, you know,
strangle him, start in, bombing him as he's alive, uh,
and kill them and then disarming him while he was alive. Yes.
Because they wanted the blood to coagulate because they then dismembered him and
caught him into pieces to get them out of the consulate.
And, uh, you know, and this was ordered by Mohammad bin Salman, the, you know,
the, the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, it's proven that he ordered it.
Well. Yeah, I think we had to go and say, do,
do we believe the CIA, uh, do we believe British intelligence,
French intelligence? Uh, do we believe Turkish intelligence, um,
Turkey? Um, there was a listening device in the consulate.
Um, we don't know how the consulate was bugged, but it was bugged.
And so the entire audio of [inaudible] murder
and even the planning of his murder, uh,
was captured by the Turks. And, um,
uh,
I obtained the transcript as part of making this film and there were
independent investigations conducted Agnes Calmar to the UN of course,
the Turks CIA,
and all of them concluded with a very,
very high level of confidence that MBS, uh,
ordered the murder. Um, and if you understand how Saudi Arabia works,
right? I mean,
this is considered an absolute monarchy.
This is an authoritarian regime, right?
And you have probably 90%, you know,
and I'm making up this statistic,
but something of the entire wealth of a country controlled by one
family.
So the idea that you could send 15 people
on private jets owned by the kingdom of
Saudi Arabia, traveling on diplomatic passports,
people in the kill team, uh, one of the guys was, uh,
[inaudible] who was Muhammad bin Salman's, you know,
personal security had a security. Uh, other guy was, uh,
out Dabashi who is the state forensic examiner and coroner
who came with a bone saw, uh, another guy,
Alice Siri is one of the top ranking generals. Um,
and the list goes on and on.
And so the idea that you could have this carried out
without the approval of the crown prince,
um, would be staggering to believe. I mean, it it's,
it's,
it's next to impossible because who else would order this
crime? And especially when you're dealing with it with an absolute monarchy,
um, anybody who did this without that sort of permission, right? I mean,
that's, this is, uh, you know,
Saudi Arabia carried out 800 beheadings last year. So, uh,
talk about off with your head. I mean, everywhere I go,
they might not recognize me, but then if I say, Hey, what are you doing?
I go, oh yeah. Did you see Icarus? I mean,
everywhere I go in the world, they all saw it. Like, I,
I can't even find people that haven't seen it at this point. I mean, it's,
it feels like the whole planet watched it.
And that is the extraordinary power of Netflix that
when they put out a film that releases into like 197 countries across
like 50 languages, all at the same time,
the entire world has access to it.
And the entire world should have access to this film,
but they're not going to have access to this film because there are
business interests at stake. There are an investment interests at stake, and,
and that is really disappointing.
And so, um,
I'm shocked that that I believe with
great wealth and with great power comes great
responsibility.
And if these business
Titans that, um,
that have huge companies lose
their moral compass,
lose their direction to basically
say, okay,
this might not be the very best thing for our business or our
subscriber growth, but God.
People should see this. Wow,
we got to do something about it. Wow.
There are people losing their lives and sitting in jails and maybe are
distributing.
This film can change that maybe are letting our
hundreds of millions of subscribers. See,
this can actually bring about positive change for humanity
and they don't do that. That's really, it's,
it's it's soul crushing. I, I got a,
a message and I hope [inaudible] is not going to be mad at me.
Um, she,
his fiance sent me a message
two, two, uh, two days ago.
And, um, she said, hi, dear Brian,
I've read all the reviews of the film. And I'm very encouraged.
May seem to like the film and they have a really good idea about it.
The main three points they mentioned is that you're brave that Omar
struggles and my position as fighting for human rights.
I'm glad I'm proud of you every day.
You made history, you did an incredible job.
Believe me all as well.
Now I'm getting better every day.
This trauma has created a new [inaudible]
. I think I understand that every day, I'm not the same person two years as I was two years before I got a lot. And I learned a lot and I made some good friends. The most important one is you and your team,
Thor, that's Thor Halverson, the president of the
human rights foundation who financed the film and Jake's
want co he is my cinematographer. My life changed in my opinion, also changed. And my daily life also
changed
. The one thing that did not change is my love and my heart. It's still full of love for humanity and
Jamal
soul. I believe that if we change life, it will be with love and with love for our values. And that's extraordinary to me to see that his fiance two years on has such that incredible positive outlook on in war in the world.
And
I'm so honored to receive that message. And at the same time, you know, I know that for the world to actually learn of her story and her fight for Jamal's life and for justice
, um,  is going to be a struggle, uh,  because of the, uh, um,
whatever want to call it business interests of
these major platforms that come ahead of seeking any sort of, uh,
accountability for human rights abuses.
And the potential to make the.
World a better place and the potential to make the world a better pace,
but might not align with their goals for subscriber
growth in that region of a world,
or it might not coincide with
possible future investments or investments or shareholder value.
And that's, that's unfortunate.
It's unfortunate if the richest man on planet earth are now the second, I guess,
uh, Jeff Bezos, uh,
is more concerned with his bottom line than he is concerned
about seeking justice and accountability for a man who worked
for him,
who was murdered while working for his newspaper and
that
he and his company could have stepped forward to see to it that the world truly
had access to this.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the Jerry on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.